[RC1][RC2] Remove tocs and false numbering (#2607)
cntt-n/CNTT: doc/ref_cert/RC1/chapters/chapter02.md

[<< Back](../)

# NFVI Conformance Requirements

![Scope](../figures/bogo_ifo.png)

## Synopsis:

> This chapter mainly covers the overall requirement for Reference Conformance test. The Conformance tests are conducted on NFVI and VNF level. Conformance on NFVI makes sure the SUT follows RM & RA requirement, and conformance on VNF makes sure VNF can be deployed and sufficiently working on the NFVI that has passed the conformance test.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This chapter mainly covers the overall requirement for Reference Conformance test. The Conformance tests are conducted on the Cloud Infrastructure and VNF level. Conformance on the Cloud Infrastructure makes sure the SUT follows RM & RA requirements, and conformance on VNF makes sure that the VNF can be deployed and sufficiently work on the Cloud Infrastructure that has passed the conformance test.
```

> All Terms utilized throughout this chapter are intended to align with CVC definitions, and their use through CVC documentation, guidelines, and standards. This chapter will outline the Requirements, Process, and Automation, needed to deliver NFVI conformance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All Terms utilized throughout this chapter are intended to align with CVC definitions, and their use through CVC documentation, guidelines, and standards. This chapter will outline the Requirements, Process, and Automation, needed to deliver the Cloud Infrastructure conformance.
```

## Introduction

> NFVI (Network Functions Virtualization Infrastructure) refers to the physical and virtual resources (compute, storage and network) on which virtual network functions (VNFs) are deployed. Due to differentiation of API and under layer configuration and capability matrix, cross vendor VNF deployment on NFVI becomes hard to predict, and requires huge amount of cross vendor interoperability tests. With combined effort from operators and vendors, define RA and RM, to make sure to consolidate the under layer configuration, capability and API, so as to provide the upper layer VNF with a 'common cloud infrastructure'. Based on this, Anuket also provides RC for conformance test of SUT against RA & RM requirements. SUT passes the conformance test will be identified as NFVI that can fit into the common requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Cloud Infrastructure refers to the physical and virtual resources (compute, storage and network) on which virtual network functions (VNFs) are deployed. Due to the differences in the API and under-layer configuration and capability matrix,  multiple vendor VNF deployments on the shared Cloud Infrastructure becomes hard to predict, and requires s amount of cross vendor interoperability tests. With the combined effort from operators and vendors, define the RA and RM, that standardises the under layer configuration, capability and API, so as to provide the upper layer VNF with a 'common cloud infrastructure'. Based on this, Anuket also provides RC for conformance tests of SUT against RA & RM requirements. SUT passes the conformance test will be identified as NFVI that can fit into the common requirements.
```

In the meantime, RC also provides conformance test for VNF. The intention is to make sure VNF that passes RC test cases can be deployed on any NFVI which also passes RC without any conformance and interoperability issue.

## Methodology

> The NFVI is consumed or used by VNFs via APIs exposed by Virtualised Infrastructure Manager (VIM). The resources created by VIM on the NFVI use the underlying physical hardware (compute, storage and network) either directly or indirectly. Anuket recommends RA1 to be used as a reference architecture for NFVI conformance. This  would provide a set of standard interfaces to create resources on NFVI. Below step by step process illustrates the NFVI conformance methodology:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Cloud Infrastructure is consumed or used by VNFs via APIs exposed by Virtualised Infrastructure Manager (VIM). The resources created by VIM on the NFVI use the underlying physical hardware (compute, storage and network) either directly or indirectly. Anuket recommends RA1 to be used as a reference architecture for the Cloud Infrastructure conformance. This would provide a set of standard interfaces to create resources on the Cloud Infrastructure. Below step by step process illustrates the NFVI conformance methodology:
```

* Verification decisions will be based on data. Test harness is compatible, or conforms to testing against standard interfaces and services.
* Leverage test harnesses from existing open source projects where practical, and applicable.

## Conformance Strategy & Vehicle

> In order to begin the Conformance process, NFVI needs to be validated and expected to be in a required state. This state would be determined by running tests as described in RI. Once the target NFVI passes these tests, it would become a candidate for NFVI Conformance. If NFVI fails the tests, it will not be move to next workflow for Conformance. NFVI+VNF conformance consist of a three part process for Compliance, Validation, and Performance. Adherence to Security standards are equally important and addressed in [Chapter 7 of Reference Model](../../../ref_model/chapters/chapter07.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to begin the Conformance process, the Cloud Infrastructure needs to be validated and expected to be in a required state. This state would be determined by running tests as described in RI. Once the target Cloud Infrastructure passes these tests, it would become a candidate for the Cloud Infrastructure Conformance. If the Cloud Infrastructure fails the tests, it will not be moved to the next workflow for Conformance. The Cloud Infrastructure+VNF conformance consist of a three part process for Compliance, Validation, and Performance. Adherence to Security standards are equally important and addressed in [Chapter 7 of Reference Model](../../../ref_model/chapters/chapter07.md).
```

 * Certify Vendor NFVI Hardware solution: This allows for Conformance of only NFVI.
 * Certify Vendor NFVI Hardware and Software Solution: This allows for Conformance for NFVI running a particular VNF.

## Compliance, Verification, and Conformance
The below set of steps define the compliance, verification and Conformance process for NFVI
* Based on VNF's requirements, NFVI profile is selected - B, N

> * NFVI readiness is checked for Conformance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* the Cloud Infrastructurereadiness is checked for Conformance.
```

> <p align="center"><img src="../figures/RC_Ref_NFVI_Profiles.jpg" alt="Reference NFVI Profiles Implementation" title="Reference NFVI Profiles Implementation" width="100%"/></p>

Reviewer: shouldn't this be changed to the non HTML format

  Measurement Success/Fail, etc), along with trace-ability to a functional, or
  non-functional, requirement.

## Framework Requirements

> The NFVI Conformance framework deals with the process of testing NFVI in below three areas:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Cloud Infrastructure Conformance framework deals with the process of testing NFVI in below three areas:
```

> * Compliance: The NFVI needs to comply to Anuket RA1/RA2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Compliance: The Cloud Infrastructure needs to comply to Anuket RA1/RA2.
```

> The NFVI KPIs are compared with Golden KPIs, which serve as a reference for NFVI Conformance. If NFVI KPIs meet Golden KPIs, NFVI is certified and granted a Conformance badge. If NFVI KPIs do not meet Golden KPIs, no Conformance badge is provided.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The NFVI KPIs are compared with Golden KPIs, which serve as a reference for NFVI Conformance. If NFVI KPIs meet Golden KPIs, NFVI is certified and granted a Conformance badge. If NFVI KPIs do not meet Golden KPIs, no Conformance badge is provided.
```
```suggestion
The Cloud Infrastructure KPIs are compared with Golden KPIs, which serve as a reference for the Cloud Infrastructure Conformance. If the Cloud Infrastructure KPIs meet Golden KPIs, The Cloud Infrastructure is certified and granted a Conformance badge. If the Cloud Infrastructure KPIs do not meet Golden KPIs, no Conformance badge is provided.
```

### Best Practices (General)

> The NFVI Conformance framework will be guided by the following core principles:

Reviewer: I think there are other places in these docs where the NFVI has to be replaced with "the Cloud Infrastructure"
